Thread created on 21:32:42 - 14/04/22 (4 years ago) | Last replied 16:24:05 - 23/04/26 (2 days ago)
So you want to start trading?
Great!
Whether you're a noob or a pro doesnt matter as much as you think


1. Getting started


When you decide that you want to start trading, the first thing you should do is find yourself a pricelist,
what I suggest doing is getting a spreadsheet made and connect it to Arsonwarehouse.


You can do this yourself or pay someone to do it for you.


The arsonwarehouse connections costs 1m a week paid in xan.
The way payment is calculated is shown on the website like this:


  



The cost of a spreadsheet varries depending on who makes it, your individual arangements etc. but usually they sell for 20-80m as a one time purchase


2. Pricing:


When you make your prices don't get greedy, look at your own prices from a sellers POV, would you sell to yourself at those prices?


Your prices is the direct representation of trading with you. If in theory you smack a 10% margin on the most common things (drugs, plush, flower, booster etc.) You will most likely not get many if any trades.


When making your prices you gotta make up a few things with yourself.


1. Do i like the potential profit of my prices?
2. Would i sell to myself at these prices?
3. Am i able to quickly sell off the item or does it take time?
4. Is it a high demand or low demand item? (3/4)


When youve made up your mind about this start looking at the items you are wanting to buy, take plushies for example, the standard margin for those are 98-102%


Plushies are a high demand item, easy to move and theres a lot of them so with an item like this you can confidently put a higer margin on them without the risk of losing money.


But if you take a look at another category, boosters for example. A 99% margin can be very risky due to the lower demand and higher spikes and drops in prices.
Take a look at fhcs. They are always bouncing around in price so theres a higher risk of overpaying and losing money if you go with high margin.


I could go on but i think you get what im trying to explain.


3. Advertising:


3.1 Trade chat:


When you start out trading no one knows who you are. So you got to get your name out there. The most common way to do this is by posting your ad in trade chat and making a trader forum.


When it comes to designing your ad and forum it can be a good idea to take inspiration from other traders, see how they build it up etc.


An example could be my own ad: "Buying almost any item! 20k+ trades, 880+ rates, 1k+ friends https://tinyurl.com/Bravoprices https://tinyurl.com/BravoThread"


In my ad i make it obvious that im [buying almost any item] which means the most common things everyone has i buy so they know they dont gotta go through several traders.


[20k+ trades] I advertise how many trades ive done, this helps to prove you're a legit trader and helps a lot when dealing with newer players as they know you have experience and can help them.


[rates and friends] This isnt a neccessarry thing to add but it can be an eye catcher, in my own case i used it as an eye catcher due to the higher amount of rates and friends as it helps make new customers trust you.


[links] In my personal opinion having direct links to your pricelist and forum is a must have, it saves people the effort of going to your profile searching for a pricelist or trade thread, and will most likely get you more customers as most will go to the next one with a visible pricelist.




3.2 Discord:


Another great way to advertise is via discord servers, especially lotto servers, this is how I basically built my rep before I started trading. by doing several lottos and racking up a 2b+ sum given away.


Discord torn servers also often have a trade channel where you can post your ads for people to see and interact with.


3.3 Lottos


Another potential for advertising is by doing lottos in said servers, however doing so you gotta be more aware of how you do it. Lotto servers are high paced and most ppl dont read lotto titles, especially if theyre long.
If you're gonna make a lotto with an ad keep it short and simple


Example: [lotto prize] Buying almost anything safe and fast set trade [ingame name] its short enough for people to quickly read and isnt annoying.


Be carefull how often you do this tho. A constant ad going in a lotto is annoying to look at. Make the ad lotto maybe once or twice a week and make sure your lotto follows the rules of the individual servers. Some have a minimum lotto prize.


4 Reputation.


Reputation is key for a trader to succeed, with great reputation people will trust you more, recommend you to friends and will generally sell you higher valued stuff.


You can choose your own way of doing trading, some people decide to be 100% clean meaning no scams, no mugs, no buymugs and generally no shady stuff.


Some decide to still buymug or mug which won’t affect your trade rep too much but will most likely land you alot of bounties which will scare off new customers, especially scared noobs.




5. Attitude


When you become a trader, you need to manage your attitude and behaviour. If you act rude or make snappy comments to your clients they wont come back and it will hurt your rep. I've personally seen traders lose any chance of ever trading because of their attitude towards people. Be kind, and most importantly be patient, espeically with newer players who don't understand trading 100%.


if you act supportive and offer assistance you will more than likely be recommended to friends and fac mates, possibly even become a whole factions sole trader. So be kind


6. Other traders


When you first become a trader you need to be very aware of what you're doing as you will 100% end up interacting with other traders, most of the top traders are understanding and friendly but a good amount are very territorial and will quickly become annoyed if you get in their way (talking from experience) Be aware of how you start out, if you obviously steal customers from others or advertise that you can beat x traders prices etc you will quickly make some petty/powerfull enemies.


But other traders arent just competition, teaming up can be of great benefit for both parts and can help both parties grow immensly, this means cooperation on for example a certain market, matching each others prices and not undercutting, helping eachother out and generally being good colleagues.


This is especially a good thing if you manage to work with big traders as they can boost your growth and rep immensly by putting in a good word for you etc.




7. Things to avoid doing


As i already said you need to be aware of your attitude and actions but most importantly is the way you interact with the outside.


- Dont be a massive douchebag on forums, global etc. It will land you a bunch of downvotes, kill your rep and basically ruin your chances of trading, Only Oran is allowed to act like a chad in forums and not experience consequences


(this section was just to call oran a chad so moving on)


8. Usefull sites


I will link some of the sites i use(d) daily as a trader


https://yata.yt/bazaar/


https://arsonwarehouse.com/foreign-stock


https://arsonwarehouse.com/trading


I think thats most of it hope it helps :)